# AnnotationBased_modelIntegration

The codes in this folder are meant to be applied as an integration tool to compose biochemical/physiological/electrical/mechanical models in CellML format and generate a final model in terms of bond graphs. To do this, the CellML files can only include the variables and their amounts since no codes are being extracted from the CellML files. The variables must be annotated beforehand. The Python functions read the CellML files, find the matching annotations based on the ones already given to the functions, and make the required connections between the bond graph sub-models. For each system, there must exist a pre-defined bond graph model with symbolic parameters. In this case, the parameters can get values from the CellML files. Currently, the functions only work for exact matching annotations with the ones previously defined in the functions. In each folder in this repository, an example of this type of model integration is provided.
*** Note that for interpreting the annotations in the files, you need to download and locate the csv files of the ontologies (here you either require FMA, OPB, GO & CHEBI) in the same directory that you keep the Python file and the CellML files. Due to the large size of these files (except for OPB), they couldn't be uploaded on GitHub. ***

The DC motor folder contains the amount files for 'motor' (electrical), 'rotor' (mechanical), and 'load'  (mechanical) which is a good example of coupling systems from different domains of physics in bond graphs. To run this model, you only need the OPB ontology which has come along with other requirements.

To read the codes explanation for the MAPK cascades go to: source ==> Introduction.rst, The_approach.rst, and mapk_Cascade.rst
